# NBA_Stat_Comparison
A comparison of the statistic for the 2021 NBA Western Conference Finals between the Los Angeles Clippers and the Phoenix Suns.

This project was created to help visualize a trajectory of the performance of each team throughout the series. It includes team statistics such as field goal percentage, blocks, steals, point differential, etc. I also created an additional column for each team to assign a point value for how they performed in each game, as compared to the other team. Over the course of each game, each team was given a point if they performed better than the opponent in any given statistical measure (i.e., in game 1, Phoenix had a higher field goal percentage, as well as a better performance in 7 other statistical measures, thus receiving 8 points for this game. In this same game, L.A. had more steals than Phoenix, giving them their only point for game 1 of the series). 

I began by pulling the game data from the NBA API, and printing out the team ID's to access the teams I wanted to compare (L.A. and Phoenix). I then pulled the game data for each team, for each game in the series. I modified the data to collect only the relevant statistics, and those labels necessary to identify each team and game, also renaming certain columns for added clarity and creating a dataframe for each team.

My next step was to merge the databases to compare them. First, I iterated over the column names of the individual dataframes to differentiate them based on team (giving one the _LAC and the other the _PHX additions to each column name) before merging. I then merged the databases, and added a column the new databse to track the points system I described above. Finally, I created two loops (one for positive association stats such as blocks and steals, and another for negative association stats such as turnovers and personal fouls) to allow me to compare each stat for each game and assign a point value for each team based on that comparison. My completed dataframe now gave me a throurough comparison of the stats for each team for every game played in the series.

My last step was to plot my findings in various charts. I created a bar graph, illustrating the performance per game based on various measures, including my points system.
